ui/static/home.md, before:

Welcome to IslandCompare (beta version 0.9) – the only genomic island prediction software developed to facilitate the analysis of microbial population datasets. IslandCompare is designed to processed sets of microbial genomes and present genomic island content with an interactive visual designed to enable exploration of cross-genome genomic island content.

IslandCompare integrates two of the most accurate genomic island predictions tools – IslandPath-DIMOB and Sigi-HMM. Additional processing steps for genome alignment and genomic island clustering have also been incorporated. Please see our [About](#/about) page for more information.

IslandCompare accepts as input sets of sequenced, annotated genomes in either EMBL or GenBank format. For pre-computed predictions of complete genomes, please visit [IslandViewer 4](http://www.pathogenomics.sfu.ca/islandviewer/browse/).

# News

06/05/2019 – A beta version of IslandCompare (version 0.9) is now available for user submissions! Please check back here for future software updates.

Commit message:

Add disclaimer and notes about draft support.

ui/static/home.md, after:

Welcome to IslandCompare (beta version 0.9) – the only genomic island prediction software developed to facilitate the analysis of microbial population datasets. IslandCompare is designed to processed sets of microbial genomes and present genomic island content with an interactive visual designed to enable exploration of cross-genome genomic island content.

IslandCompare integrates two of the most accurate genomic island predictions tools – IslandPath-DIMOB and Sigi-HMM. Additional processing steps for genome alignment and genomic island clustering have also been incorporated. Please see our [About](#/about) page for more information.

IslandCompare accepts as input sets of sequenced, annotated genomes in either EMBL or GenBank format. For pre-computed predictions of complete genomes, please visit [IslandViewer 4](http://www.pathogenomics.sfu.ca/islandviewer/browse/).

# News

06/05/2019 – A beta version of IslandCompare (version 0.9) is now available for user submissions! Disclaimer: This site is under active development - please consider this a test site. Check back here for future software updates or see [contact information](#/contact) to be added to the mailing list.
